Most of these programs have intelligible usage messages, or comments
in the source code that explain the usage, or both. My favorites are
`git-vee` and `git-re-edit`. Here is a brief summary of what they do.

`git-addq` is a simple wrapper around `git-dirtyfiles` and
[`menupick`](https://github.com/mjdominus/util/blob/master/bin/menupick)
that gives a menu of dirty files and asks which ones you want added to
the index. Options are passed to `git-dirtyfiles`, so `-q` includes
unknown files in the menu. `menupick` is available in my [util
repository](https://github.com/mjdominus/util).

`git-command` is a shell alias. If you make a symbolic link, say
`commit`, that points to `git-command`, then you now have a `commit`
command that actually runs `git-commit`.

`git-dirtyfiles` lists the files in the repository that have been
edited since the last commit, ignoring unknown files by default, but
including them if you pass `-q`. With a commit argument, lists the
files that were changed in that commit. This exists mainly to be a
back-end for `git-re-edit`; see below.

`git-fetchs` fetches all branches from all the remotes that you have
previously fetched from. This is primarily useful if you have a bunch
of remotes that you don't normally fetch. At a previous employer, we
had a repo setup script that would add one remote for each coworker.
But in most repos I would only want to fetch from the coworkers with
whom I was actually collaborating.

`git-ff-branch` fast-forwards a branch that might not be checked out.
For example, suppose you do `git fetch remote`, find that
`remote/master` has updated, and you would like to move `master` to
point to `remote/master`. You can use `git ff-branch master` (if
`master` is set up to track `remote/master`, or `git ff-branch master remote/master` (if not). Or you can just use `git ff-branch -r remote` to fast-forward all refs that track branches on `remote`. The
command will not modify any head except by fast-forwarding.

`git-files` passes its arguments to `git-log`, extracts only the names
of the changed files from the output, and prints each one exactly once
on standard output, omitting files that no longer exist in the current
working tree. (Work in progress; see `NOTES/git-files`.)

`git-forcepush` is for pushing non-fast-forward updates to branches in
repositories that normally forbid that. It does it by deleting the
old branch first.

`git-get` retrieves miscellaneous information about the repository.
For example, how does a program retrieve the name of the
currently-checked-out branch? One common answer is the ridiculous
`git branch | grep '^\*' | cut -c3-`. Another is the equally
ridiculous `git rev-parse --symbolic-full-name --abbrev-ref HEAD`. With `git-get` you don't have to remember that nonsense: you
use `git get current-branch-name`. To check if the repository is
dirty, you use `git get is-working-tree-dirty` and it exits
successfully if so, and unsuccessfully if not. It is easy to drop in
new subcommands; every time I find out there is no easy way to
determine some bit of git information, I drop it in here. `git get`
with no argument prints a list of available information.

`git-getpr` takes a pull request number and pulls the change branch
from Github or Gitlab into the local repository.  Then it creates a
worktree for the branch. The `-d` option cleans up again.  The
worktree is under `/tmp/mjd` by default; patches welcome.

`git-git` is the reverse of `git-command`. If you accidentally type
`git git commit`, then `git-git` will silently run `git commit` for
you. (This used to be a program but is now a line in `.gitconfig`.)

`git-last-file-change` searches the current branch to find the most
recent commit that modified a file whose name contains the specified
substring, and prints the SHA of that commit.  Typical uses: `git
commit --fixup $(git lfc somefile)` or `git re-edit $(git
lfc somefile)`

`git-lst` lists the files in the specified directory, from
most-recently to least-recently committed, with the last commit times.
It is very much a work in progress; it should have many options, but
doesn't. Unlike
[`git-ls-date`](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/git-ls-date) it is fast
and doesn't fail completely in large repos. The name `lst` is supposed
to remind you of `ls -t` and also of "LaST changes".

`git-pusho` is for pushing local branches to a shared repository. If
your username is `fred` and you have branch `topic` checked out, then
`git pusho` is equivalent to `git push origin HEAD:fred/topic`, or
something like that; it takes a `--format` option to tell it how to
build the remote ref name.  I use `%u/%b-%t-%d` which turns into
`mjd/topic-ticketnumber-yyyymmdd` because I'm crazy like that.
Unrecognized options are passed along to `git-push`.

`git-q` is for quick queries. You give it a bunch of commit-ishes and
it prints out their short hashes and commit dates, one per line, so
that you can see which one was first. But if the first argument
begins with a `%`, it is interpreted as a request for something other
than the commit date, so that `git q %ae` gets the author email
addresses instead, and `git q %s` gets the subjects and so forth. The
full list of requestable information is documented in `git-log`.

`git-quick-commit` is just a `git-add -u` followed by `git-commit`,
but in between it uses `git-diff --cached` to show you the staged
changes that will be committed, and asks you to confirm whether it
should continue. All command-line arguments are passed to
`git-commit`.

`git-quickinit` is trivial.  It runs `git-init` and creates an initial
commit with an empty `.gitignore` file.

`git-quickpush` is useful when you want to push commits to a branch
that is frequenty updated by many other people: You fetch the branch,
rebase your commits onto the branch, then push the branch---and the
push fails because someone else pushed to the branch after you fetched
and before you pushed. `git-quickpush` does the three operations in
quick succession, and if it fails it's easy to rerun.
`git-quickmerge` is similar. You specify a branch to merge to, and
some additional options to the `git-merge` command, and it fetches the
target branch, merges to it, and pushes it back, again in quick
succession.

`git-re-edit` runs `git-dirtyfiles` and invokes the editor on all the
currently-dirty files, or if there are no dirty files, the files that
changed in the last commit.

1. Suppose you left your working directory dirty when you went home,
   and for some reason the editor has exited, and you want to open up the
   editor again to edit the same batch of files. That is the basic use
   case. You invoke "git re-edit" and it runs the editor on the dirty
   files.
2. After `git reset HEAD^`, use `git re-edit` to invoke the editor on the files that were changed in the last commit.
3. During an interactive rebase that results in a complicated merge, you would like to run the editor on the conflicted files to resolve the conflicts. `git re-edit` will do that.
4. You or a coworker refactors some code. Later, you'd like to refactor the same code some more. Use `git re-edit` _commit_ to edit the files that were changed in that commit.

`git-todays-commits` is supposed to list the commits that I made today.

`git-treehash` compares the object IDs of the _trees_ of two or more
commits. This tells you if the commits have identical contents. For
example, after a rebase in which commits are reordered, the new commit
should have an identical tree to the original commit. `git treehash`
with no arguments will compare the trees of `HEAD` and `ORIG_HEAD`.
If they are identical, it will print out the single hash of the tree.
Otherwise, it will print out both hashes, labeled. Given multiple
commits, it will print out all the tree hashes, each labeled with the
ref names to which it applies, so that you can see which commits have
identical trees and which don't.

`git-vee` compares two branches, showing the history back to the point
at which they diverged. By default it compares the current `HEAD`
with its remote-tracked branch:

    git vee                 # compare current head branch and its remote tracking branch
    git vee remote          # compare current head branch and its analog on the remote
    git vee remote branch   # compare branch and remote/branch
    git vee branch          # compare HEAD and branch
    git vee branch1 branch2 # compare branch1 and branch2

Commits are indicated with stars, except that commits that are present
in both branches are indicated with `=` signs.

`git-what-changed` gets options and arguments like those for
`git-log`, and then emits the filenames, and only the filenames, that
have been changed in the selected commits. By default this lists the
changed files in reverse chronological order. I have an alias, `git myfiles`, which means `git what-changed --author=mjd`, which lists the
files I have recently touched.

`git-whats` associates metadata with git branches by storing key-value
pairs in `.git/config`. Use `git whats set ticket=XYZ-1234` to
associate a ticket number with the current branch, or `git whats set
"Working on feature X"` to set a description. Retrieve values with
`git whats get ticket` or just `git whats get` for the default
description. The `prune` subcommand removes metadata for deleted
branches.

`trim` is not really a git command. It trims trailing whitespace from
the files named in its arguments.

`conf/dot-gitconfig` and `conf/dot-gitignore` contain my personal
`.gitconfig` and `.gitignore` files.

`bash_completion.d` contains completion scripts, which, if sourced,
will enable bash command-line completion for some of these commands.

---

A discussion of how I use some of these tools is available at [My Git Habits](http://blog.plover.com/prog/git-habits.html).
